What Is Linux?
Linux is an operating system's kernel. You might have heard of UNIX. Well, Linux is a UNIX clone. Linux is free and open-source, that means that you can simply change anything in Linux and redistribute it in your own name! 
There are several Linux Distributions, commonly called “distros”.

Ubuntu Linux
Red Hat Enterprise Linux
Linux Mint
Debian
Fedora

Linux is Mainly used in servers. About 90% of the internet is powered by Linux servers. This is because Linux is fast, secure, and free! 
The main problem of using Windows servers are their cost. 
This is solved by using Linux servers.

Linux Shell or “Terminal”
So, basically, a shell is a program that receives commands from the user and gives it to the OS to process, and it shows the output. Linux's shell is its main part. 
Its distros come in GUI (graphical user interface), but basically, Linux has a CLI (command line interface). 

Linux Commands

Basic Commands

1. pwd — When you first open the terminal, you are in the home directory of your user. To know which directory you are in, you can use the “pwd” command. 
It gives us the absolute path, which means the path that starts from the root.

2. ls — Use the "Is" command to know what files are in the directory you are in. You can see all the hidden files by using the command “ls -a”.

3. cd — Use the "cd" command to go to a directory. 

4. mkdir & rmdir — Use the mkdir command when you need to create a folder or a directory.Use rmdir to delete a directory. But rmdir can only be used to delete an empty directory.

5. rm — Use the rm command to delete files and directories. But rm cannot simply delete a directory. Use “rm -r” to delete a directory. 

6. touch — The touch command is used to create a file. 

7. man & --help — To know more about a command and how to use it, use the man command. 

8. cp — Use the cp command to copy files through the command line. 

9. mv — Use the mv command to move files through the command line. We can also use the mv command to rename a file.

10. locate — The locate command is used to locate a file in a Linux system, just like the search command in Windows. 

Intermediate Commands

1. echo — The "echo" command helps us move some data, usually text into a file. 

2. cat — Use the cat command to display the contents of a file. It is usually used to easily view programs.

3. nano, vi, jed — nano and vi are already installed text editors in the Linux command line. The nano command is a good text editor that denotes keywords 
with color and can recognize most languages. 
   And vi is simpler than nano. You can create a new file or modify a file using this editor. 
   
4. sudo — A widely used command in the Linux command line, sudo stands for "SuperUser Do". 
So, if you want any command to be done with administrative or root privileges, you can use the sudo command.

5. df — Use the df command to see the available disk space in each of the partitions in your system. 

6. du — Use du to know the disk usage of a file in your system. 

7. tar — Use tar to work with tarballs (or files compressed in a tarball archive) in the Linux command line. It has a long list of uses. It can be used to compress and uncompress

8. zip, unzip — Use zip to compress files into a zip archive, and unzip to extract files from a zip archive.

9. uname — Use uname to show the information about the system your Linux distro is running. 

10. apt-get — Use apt to work with packages in the Linux command line. Use apt-get to install packages.

11. chmod — Use chmod to make a file executable and to change the permissions granted to it in Linux.

12. hostname — Use hostname to know your name in your host or network. 

13. ping — Use ping to check your connection to a server. 