Operating System:
 An Operating System (OS) is an interface between a computer user and computer hardware. An operating system is a software which performs all the basic tasks like file management,
memory management, process management, handling input and output, and controlling peripheral devices such as disk drives and printers.

Memory Management
Keeps tracks of primary memory, i.e., what part of it are in use by whom, what part are not in use.

In multiprogramming, the OS decides which process will get memory when and how much.

Allocates the memory when a process requests it to do so.
Memory management refers to management of Primary Memory or Main Memory. Main memory is a large array of words or bytes where each word or byte has its own address.

Processor Management
In multiprogramming environment, the OS decides which process gets the processor when and for how much time. This function is called process scheduling.
Allocates the processor (CPU) to a process.
De-allocates processor when a process is no longer required.

Device Management
An Operating System manages device communication via their respective drivers. It does the following activities for device management −
Keeps tracks of all devices. Program responsible for this task is known as the I/O controller.
Allocates the device in the efficient way.
De-allocates devices.

File Management
A file system is normally organized into directories for easy navigation and usage. These directories may contain files and other directions.
Decides who gets the resources.
Allocates the resources.
De-allocates the resources.

Other Important Activities
Security
Control over system performance
Job accounting
Error detecting aids 
Coordination between other softwares and users 

Batch operating system
The users of a batch operating system do not interact with the computer directly. 
Each user prepares his job on an off-line device like punch cards and submits it to the computer operator.
The problems with Batch Systems are as follows −
Lack of interaction between the user and the job.
CPU is often idle, because the speed of the mechanical I/O devices is slower than the CPU.

Time-sharing operating systems
Time-sharing is a technique which enables many people, located at various terminals, to use a particular computer system at the same time. 
Time-sharing or multitasking is a logical extension of multiprogramming.