Virtual Reality:
Virtual reality technology seeks to create a realistic three-dimensional image or environment that a human can perceive as real, and even interact with in realistic ways.

What is virtual reality and how does it work?
Virtual Reality is becoming a very in demand concept and with so many new devices and cameras that have come out showcasing this technology, it can be easy to feel left behind. Because VR is still relatively new it may not even be something that you have experienced yet. 
In this article we will explain what VR technology is and the types of applications it can have for the future.

By using a Virtual Reality headset or applicable application, you can enter into special simulations. These simulations are designed to be extremely immersive experiences 
which the user can interact with and explore. The viewer controls the environment and has the power to look around at any scene as well as potentially
interact with the objects in the scene.

A VR headset is a head-mounted display (HMD) that blocks out the outside world and displays a 3-D world or stitched images to create a simulation for the user.

The main features of VR systems include:
Immersion:
The goal of any VR system is to completely immerse the user in a new simulation environment. This means filling their peripheral vision using the visor, 
introducing sound canceling surroundsound headphones which can put them into the scene and giving them control over the scene with their head movements.

Interaction
In many films and games, app creators are working at creating more immersive experiences.

Applications of Virtual Reality:
VR in the film industry
VR applications in entertainment
VR applications for virtual theme parks

Diff bw AR VR MR:
Virtual reality (VR) immerses users in a fully artificial digital environment.
Augmented reality (AR) overlays virtual objects on the real-world environment.
Mixed reality (MR) not just overlays but anchors virtual objects to the real world.



































